
Git Key Terms: 

Local: These referce to version of you project in your local,personal computer.
When you make changes in the local,they are not immidiately available to anyone else.
Changes need to be commited and pushed to remote repo first.


Staging Environment:
  Before you commit all the changes , you can decide which changes will be included in comit by moving chnages into staging env.
  Staging are like preparation table, where you can line upi your changes, get ready for finalizing first.

Add:


Remote: These is the version of your project that is in your internet or another network, often in the platform like Github, GitLab, Bitbucket.
After commiting the changes locally the commits will be pushed to the remote repo.


Commit:
Once your are sattisfied with the changes you have made.Then you can commit them.
A commit is like taking a picture of all the changes that yuo have made at the moment.

Repository:
It contains each file in your project and stores your changes as history
Think of this as a folder, that git can track(follow) the changes, updates and deletes.


Basic commands of git:
Command is an order that we can execute in the terminal:

git init:  (linking folder to Git technology so it can be tracked)
   These initializes a new Git repository and begins tracking an existing directory.
   Adds a hidden subfolder within the existing directory, that houses the internal data structure for version control.
git add:
   Adds changes in the directory(folder) to the staging area.It prepares for the commit.
   git add Python-Day4-Git.txt  <--specify what i want to be added
   syntax: git add filename
   We would want to add all the changes in staging environment : (git add -A )   or  (git add ./)
git commit:
   Takes all the changes written in staging environment and saves them to the local repo.
   You should provide a message describing what this commit is for.
   syntax: git commit -m "Descriptive commit message #time 1h"
git push: 
   Pushes commits from your local repository to a remote repository
   For the first push to a new remote you might need to specify branch as well.
   First time: git push origin main
   All other time: git push 

What is Token?(password)
It is a string of character tat represents a specific permission or authorization.
In git we can use PAT(Personal Acces Token): A secure token that users generate to authenticate into their github account when using HTTPS protocol

GitHubToken= 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  <-- this is my access token
https://github.com/zhannakarayeva/devops.git        <-- this is my repo name
To connect my token to my repo : https://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:github.com/zhannakarayeva/devops.git 
https://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@github.com/zhannakarayeva/devops.git 




   
Branching in git is an advanced topic in Git.
pwd-in which folder i am working /Users/zhannakarayeva/Desktop/PythonB5
git init 
ls -A
git add -A 
git commit -m "Message "
git push origin main
clear -will clear everything in my terminal



